dengan judul skripsi CROSS-DOMAIN WI-FI CSI PERCEPTION VIA SELF-SUPERVISED DISENTANGLEMENT AND SPATIAL RETRIEVAL-AUGMENTED GENERATION yang menitikberatkan pada kemampuan wifi sensing dalam mengenali ruang yang saat ini masih bersifat statis, sehingga ketika ruang saat training dan deploy model berbeda akan terjadi penurunan akurasi yang signifikan. Dari hal ini kami mengusulkan untuk mengintegrasikan RAG untuk sebagai layer untuk 'membaca' ruang/layout yang berubah menjadi input pembelajaran model. Berikut ini adalah sumber referensi penelitian (paper, artikel jurnal, conferences) yang berkaitan dengan penelitian ini, dengan fokus pada "wifi sensing", "cross-domain", "self-supervised learning", "disentanglement", "spatial retrieval-augmented generation", dan "RAG for dynamic environment adaptation".”

1. Prasad, G., Pandey, A., & Kumar, S. (2024). Domain adaptation for localization using combined autoencoder and gradient reversal layer in dynamic IoT environment. *IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering*. https://doi.org/10.1109/TNSE.2023.3304986
Abstract. The popularity of Received Signal Strength (RSS) fingerprint-based indoor localization is mainly due to ubiquitous nature of Wi-Fi signals. However, environment changes, device heterogeneity and change in Access Points (APs) results in domain shift between offline and online RSS fingerprints. This article proposes a novel Domain Adversarial Neural Network for Regression (DANN-R) over a compressed RSS representation derived from Autoencoders used as a dimension reduction technique to alleviate the challenges of a dynamic IoT environment. In addition, adversarially learn domain-invariant representation in DANN-R using gradient reversal layer (GRL) mitigates these RSS fluctuations by learning a common representation, where source domain (offline RSS data) and target domain (online RSS data) cannot be distinguished. The proposed method outperforms both state-of-art machine learning algorithms and deep domain adaptation frameworks on two public localization testbeds.

2. Zhang, J., Xue, J., Li, Y., & Cotton, S. L. (2025). Leveraging online learning for domain-adaptation in Wi-Fi-based device-free localization. *IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing*. https://doi.org/10.1109/tmc.2025.3552538
Abstract. Wi-Fi-based device-free localization (DFL) will be an integral part of many emerging applications, such as smart healthcare and smart homes. One popular approach to DFL in Wi-Fi makes use of fingerprinting based on channel state information (CSI). Unfortunately, high-quality fingerprints cannot easily be obtained in many real-world environments due to the complicated, time-varying and multipath conditions which exist. Additionally, existing methods struggle to update the DFL models in a real-time manner to track changes of environment. To address these issues, an online data-driven modelling DFL framework is designed for robustness enhancement. Specifically, the raw CSI data is first augmented with the hidden layer parameters of an online deep neural network to strengthen the pair-to-pair mappings between signal variations and a target’s location. The radio map created with the augmented fingerprints can be updated with new sequential data collected from other domains, such as different times and layouts of the same environment. Subsequently, a novel online DFL model is established using these augmented fingerprints, which itself can be updated with new sequential data from other domains without the need for retraining. A forgetting mechanism is considered to mitigate the effects of outdated data on the localization performance. To validate our new framework, a comprehensive set of experiments have been performed in various environments for different scenarios. The experimental results verify the robustness and responsive tracking ability of the proposed online data-driven modelling DFL framework.

3. Liu, S., Chen, Z., Wu, M., Wang, H., Xing, B., & Chen, L. C. (2024). Generalizing wireless cross-multiple-factor gesture recognition to unseen domains. *IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing*. https://doi.org/10.1109/TMC.2023.3301501
Abstract. Cross-domain wireless sensing has always been challenging due to the sensitivity of wireless signals to various environmental factors, which we refer to as subdomains. However, current efforts are limited to cross-one-subdomain tasks requiring target domain data for model training or multiple receivers for data collection. Taking common gesture recognition as an application example, we attempt to demonstrate the feasibility of cross-multiple-subdomain wireless sensing in the more challenging domain generalization (DG) setting. It is possible to extract domain-invariant features from one or several source domain(s), thereby avoiding the need for multiple receivers or target domain data. We also propose an intelligent wireless data augmentation technique based on subdomain-guided perturbations, named WiSGP. Specifically, the independent domain model generates perturbations in the direction of the largest subdomain variations. Then, these subdomain-guided perturbations augment the gesture model's input to enable better domain-invariant feature extraction, even when various subdomains interact. Similarly, gesture-guided perturbations augment the domain model's input, resulting in more accurate subdomain-guided perturbations and minimal gesture label changes. Extensive experiments have been conducted on three datasets collected from various NICs. In terms of room, location, orientation, and user subdomains, WiSGP exhibits excellent accuracy, generalizability, and portability for both cross-one-subdomain and cross-multiple-subdomain tasks.

4. Puspitasari, N. F. (2014). Analisis RSSI (receive signal strength indicator) terhadap ketinggian perangkat Wi-Fi di lingkungan indoor. https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/31b9a1b90f6f5aaece7fd5ecdfc82e3771031e0f
Abstract. Menempatkan perangkat Wi-Fi pada tempat dan ketinggian yang sesuai akan memberikan pengaruh yang besar terhadap kekuatan sinyal yang diterima oleh receiver. Sehingga peneliti merasa perlu untuk melakukan penelitian dengan melakukan pengukuran RSSI di lingkungan indoor ruang dosen gedung 2 lantai 1 STMIK AMIKOM Yogyakarta. RSSI merupakan teknologi yang digunakan untuk mengukur indikator kekuatan sinyal yang diterima oleh sebuah perangkat wireless. RSSI merupakan daya yang diterima oleh perangkat wireless pada receiver yang menunjukkan variasi yang besar karena adanya pengaruh fading dan shadowing. Pengukuran RSSI ini menggunakan nilai spesifik untuk setiap vendor sehingga penilaian antara vendor yang satu dengan yang lainnya berbeda. Pada penelitian ini pengukuran RSSI dilakukan dengan bantuan aplikasi InSSIDER yang terpasang di PC/Laptop/Hp, dimana telah dilakukan pengujian terhadap 3 (tiga) jenis ketinggian perangkat Wi-Fi yaitu ketinggian 50 cm, 120 cm dan 230 cm terhadap 43 receiver.

5. Yan, H., Zhang, X., Huang, J., Feng, Y., Li, M., Wang, A., Ou, W., Wang, H., & Liu, Z. (2025). Wi-SFDAGR: WiFi-based cross-domain gesture recognition via source-free domain adaptation. *IEEE Internet of Things Journal*. https://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2025.3554228
Abstract. WiFi channel state information (CSI)-based gesture recognition offers unique advantages, including cost-effectiveness and enhanced privacy protection, and has garnered significant attention in recent years. However, existing WiFi-based gesture recognition solutions exhibit poor generalization ability when deployed in new environment, orientation, or location. Although some methods combine labeled source domain and unlabeled target domain to learn domain-independent features, factors, such as data privacy protection, hinder access to source data during practical environment adaptation. Consequently, we consider realistic scenario where source data is unavailable during adaptation of unlabeled test data, and instead, a trained source domain model is used. In this article, we propose Wi-SFDAGR, a WiFi-based source-free domain adaptation gesture recognition framework. Specifically, we treat cross-domain as an unsupervised clustering problem, aiming to ensure that features within local neighborhoods exhibit similar prediction results while those farther apart display different prediction outcomes in the feature space. We theoretically analyze the effect of enhanced prediction consistency between neighbor points extracted from gestures on generalization error. Furthermore, we employ an attraction-dispersion network to strengthen prediction consistency among closely located features in the feature space while reducing it for distantly located features. To mitigate noise introduced during nearest neighbor sample selection in the feature space (where predictions may not align with the input sample’s prediction), we progressively improve nearby sample feature aggregation by estimating uncertainty to reweight local neighborhood predictions. Finally, extensive experiments are conducted on the Widar 3.0 and XRF55 datasets and the results show our proposed framework outperforms most cross-domain methods.

6. Chen, X., Li, H., Zhou, C., Liu, X., Wu, D., & Dudek, G. (2022). Fidora: Robust WiFi-based indoor localization via unsupervised domain adaptation. *IEEE Internet of Things Journal*. https://doi.org/10.1109/jiot.2022.3163391
Abstract. Emerging Internet of Things (IoT) applications, such as cashier-less shopping, mobile ads targeting, and geo-based augmented reality (AR), are expected to bring us much more convenience and infotainment. To realize this amazing future, we need to feed these applications with user locations of (sub)meter-level resolution anytime and anywhere. Unfortunately, many widely used location sources are either unavailable indoor (e.g., global positioning system) or coarse grained (e.g., user check-ins). In order to provide ubiquitous localization services, the widespread WiFi signals are being leveraged to establish (sub)meter-level localization systems. Fine-grained WiFi propagation characteristics, which are sensitive to human body locations, have been employed to create location fingerprints. However, these WiFi characteristics are also sensitive to: 1) the body shapes of different users and 2) the objects in the background environment. Consequently, systems based on WiFi fingerprints are vulnerable in the presence of: 1) new users with different body shapes and 2) daily changes of the environment, e.g., opening/closing doors. To tackle this issue, this article proposes a WiFi-based localization system based on domain-adaptation with cluster assumption, named Fidora. Fidora is able to: 1) localize different users with labeled data from only one or two example users and 2) localize the same user in a changed environment without labeling any new data. To achieve these, Fidora integrates two major modules. It first adopts a data augmenter that introduces data diversity using a variational autoencoder (VAE). It then trains a domain-adaptive classifier that adjusts itself to newly collected unlabeled data using a joint classification-reconstruction structure. We conducted real-world experiments to evaluate Fidora against the state of the art. It is demonstrated that when tested on an unlabeled user, Fidora increases the average $F1$ score by 17.8% and improves the worst case accuracy by 20.2%. Moreover, when applied in a varied environment, Fidora outperforms the state of the art by 23.1%.

7. Zhang, J., Tang, Z., Li, M., Fang, D., Nurmi, P., & Wang, Z. (2018). CrossSense: Towards cross-site and large-scale WiFi sensing. *ACM/IEEE International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking*. https://doi.org/10.1145/3241539.3241570
Abstract. We present CrossSense, a novel system for scaling up WiFi sensing to new environments and larger problems. To reduce the cost of sensing model training data collection, CrossSense employs machine learning to train, off-line, a roaming model that generates from one set of measurements synthetic training samples for each target environment. To scale up to a larger problem size, CrossSense adopts a mixture-of-experts approach where multiple specialized sensing models, or experts, are used to capture the mapping from diverse WiFi inputs to the desired outputs. The experts are trained offline and at runtime the appropriate expert for a given input is automatically chosen. We evaluate CrossSense by applying it to two representative WiFi sensing applications, gait identification and gesture recognition, in controlled single-link environments. We show that CrossSense boosts the accuracy of state-of-the-art WiFi sensing techniques from 20% to over 80% and 90% for gait identification and gesture recognition respectively, delivering consistently good performance - particularly when the problem size is significantly greater than that current approaches can effectively handle.

8. Chi, G., Zhang, G., Ding, X., Ma, Q., Yang, Z., Du, Z., Xiao, H., & Liu, Z. (2024). XFall: Domain adaptive Wi-Fi-based fall detection with cross-modal supervision. *IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications*. https://doi.org/10.1109/JSAC.2024.3413997
Abstract. Recent years have witnessed an increasing demand for human fall detection systems. Among all existing methods, Wi-Fi-based fall detection has become one of the most promising solutions due to its pervasiveness. However, when applied to a new domain, existing Wi-Fi-based solutions suffer from severe performance degradation caused by low generalizability. In this paper, we propose XFall, a domain-adaptive fall detection system based on Wi-Fi. XFall overcomes the generalization problem from three aspects. To advance cross-environment sensing, XFall exploits an environment-independent feature called speed distribution profile, which is irrelevant to indoor layout and device deployment. To ensure sensitivity across all fall types, an attention-based encoder is designed to extract the general fall representation by associating both the spatial and temporal dimensions of the input. To train a large model with limited amounts of Wi-Fi data, we design a cross-modal learning framework, adopting a pre-trained visual model for supervision during the training process. We implement and evaluate XFall on one of the latest commercial wireless products through a year-long deployment in real-world settings. The result shows XFall achieves an overall accuracy of 96.8%, with a miss alarm rate of 3.1% and a false alarm rate of 3.3%, outperforming the state-of-the-art solutions in both in-domain and cross-domain evaluation.

9. Liu, S., Chen, Z., Wu, M., Liu, C., & Chen, L. C. (2024). WiSR: Wireless domain generalization based on style randomization. *IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing*. https://doi.org/10.1109/TMC.2023.3292229
Abstract. Current wireless cross-domain solutions are limited to cross-one-factor tasks, requiring target domain data participation for training or position-independent feature extraction using multiple transceivers. Therefore, this paper aims to demonstrate cross-domain wireless sensing in a more challenging domain generalization (DG) setting without multiple transceivers or target domain data. Specifically, we propose a style-randomized cross-domain wireless sensing model called WiSR, which extracts domain-invariant features from multiple source domains. It quantifies Channel State Information (CSI) differences in the subcarrier dimensions as subcarrier-domain styles and instructs the feature extractor to gradually bias the gesture signals by randomizing the subcarrier-domain styles at the feature level. Meanwhile, a domain classifier that shares the same feature extractor is instructed to gradually bias the domain signals by randomizing the gesture features. Then, an adversarial training framework enables the domain classifier to reduce the influence of domain signals on the feature extractor. Extensive experiments have been performed on three gesture datasets with varying amounts of subcarriers from devices with different NICs, including cross-one-factor (such as room, user, location, and orientation) and cross-multi-factor sensing tasks. The results demonstrate that our method considerably increases performance on wireless DG tasks.

10. Xu, K., Zheng, Z., Zhu, H., Wang, L., & Wang, J. (2023). ARC-Fi: Exploiting antenna spatial diversity for label-efficient domain generalization in Wi-Fi sensing. https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/605352b34f7064d74c58d0cee77e7cb590f66544
Abstract. Wi-Fi sensing systems are severely hindered by cross domain problem when deployed in unseen real-world environments. Existing methods typically design separate frameworks for either domain adaptation or domain generalization, often relying on extensive labeled data. Existing methods that designed for domain generalization is often relying on extensive labeled data. However, real-world scenarios are far more complex, where the deployed model must be capable of handling generalization under limited labeled source data. To this end, we propose UniCrossFi, a unified framework designed to mitigate performance drop in CSI-based sensing across diverse deployment settings. Our framework not only extends conventional Domain Generalization (DG) to a more practical Semi-Supervised Domain Generalization (SSDG) setting, where only partially labeled source data are available, but also introduces a physics-informed data augmentation strategy, Antenna Response Consistency (ARC). ARC mitigates the risk of learning superficial shortcuts by exploiting the intrinsic spatial diversity of multi-antenna systems, treating signals from different antennas as naturally augmented views of the same event. In addition, we design a Unified Contrastive Objective to prevent conventional contrastive learning from pushing apart samples from different domains that share the same class. We conduct extensive experiments on the public Widar and CSIDA datasets. The results demonstrate that UniCrossFi consistently establishes a new state-of-the-art, significantly outperforming existing methods across all unsupervised domain adaptation, DG, and SSDG benchmarks. UniCrossFi provides a principled and practical solution to the domain shift challenge, advancing the feasibility of robust, real-world Wi-Fi sensing systems that can operate effectively with limited labeled data.

11. Lee, C. H., Choi, H., Arakawa, Y., & Kim, J. D. (2026). Cross-domain passive channel charting from Wi-Fi sensing toward robust indoor positioning. *2026 IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communications Workshops and other Affiliated Events (PerCom Workshops)*. https://doi.org/10.1109/PerComWorkshops68308.2026.11585421
Abstract. Existing channel state information (CSI)-based passive channel charting (PCC) methodology is a cost-effective alternative for robust and ubiquitous positioning technology in indoor spaces, but exhibits a fundamental limitation in that it is extremely susceptible to configurational domain shifts, such as changes in transmitter placement. This susceptibility acts as a critical barrier to large-scale deployment in low-cost, low-resource internet of things (IoT) environments that utilize a limited number of antennas. To address these constraints, a self-supervised learning based PCC framework robust to configurational domain shifts is proposed. The proposed model utilizes a hybrid architecture combining a convolutional neural network (CNN) head and a Transformer encoder within a Siamese network structure. This architecture achieves robustness by directly modeling the fundamental spatio-temporal dynamics of the CSI, instead of extracting explicit domain-invariant features. Evaluation of the model is performed using a real-world dataset. Experimental results clearly demonstrate the superior robustness of the proposed model in low-cost IoT environments by achieving low positioning error and overcoming the severe performance degradation typically observed in general cross-domain scenarios.

12. Yang, L., Kamada, T., & Ohta, C. (2021). Indoor localization based on CSI in dynamic environments through domain adaptation. *IEICE Communications Express*. https://doi.org/10.1587/COMEX.2021XBL0075
Abstract. : As the demand for indoor localization applications continues to grow, device-free localization based on Wi-Fi Channel State Information (CSI) has become a popular research topic. Wi-Fi signals are, however, easily aﬀected by environmental factors such as furniture changes. These factors disable the original localization system, and rebuilding it will cost a lot of time and workforce. This is a major challenge of device-free Wi-Fi localization. To address this issue, we use a transfer learning method, “Integration of Global and Local Metrics for Domain Adaptation (IGLDA),” and improve it, aiming to adapt the original localization model to the changing environment. Consequently, the localization accuracy is improved from 26.3 % to 82.2 % by only recollecting 37.5 % of data.

13. Yang, J., Chen, X., Zou, H., Wang, D., & Xie, L. (2022). AutoFi: Toward automatic Wi-Fi human sensing via geometric self-supervised learning. *IEEE Internet of Things Journal*. https://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2022.3228820
Abstract. Wi-Fi sensing technology has shown superiority in smart homes among various sensors for its cost-effective and privacy-preserving merits. It is empowered by channel state information (CSI) extracted from Wi-Fi signals and advanced machine learning models to analyze motion patterns in CSI. Many learning-based models have been proposed for kinds of applications, but they severely suffer from environmental dependency. Though domain adaptation methods have been proposed to tackle this issue, it is not practical to collect high-quality, well-segmented, and balanced CSI samples in a new environment for adaptation algorithms, but randomly captured CSI samples can be easily collected. In this article, we first explore how to learn a robust model from these low-quality CSI samples, and propose AutoFi, an annotation-efficient Wi-Fi sensing model based on a novel geometric self-supervised learning algorithm. The AutoFi fully utilizes unlabeled low-quality CSI samples that are captured randomly, and then transfers the knowledge to specific tasks defined by users, which is the first work to achieve cross-task transfer in Wi-Fi sensing. The AutoFi is implemented on a pair of Atheros Wi-Fi APs for evaluation. The AutoFi transfers knowledge from randomly collected CSI samples into human gait recognition and achieves state-of-the-art performance. Furthermore, we simulate cross-task transfer using public data sets to further demonstrate its capacity for cross-task learning. For the UT-HAR and Widar data sets, the AutoFi achieves satisfactory results on activity recognition and gesture recognition without any prior training. We believe that AutoFi takes a huge step toward automatic Wi-Fi sensing without any developer engagement. Our codes have been included in https://github.com/xyanchen/Wi-Fi-CSI-Sensing-Benchmark.

14. Lyons, N., Santra, A., Ramanna, V. K., Uln, K., Taori, R., & Pandey, A. (2024). WIFIACT: Enhancing human sensing through environment robust preprocessing and bayesian self-supervised learning. *IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing*. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICASSP48485.2024.10446566
Abstract. Wi-Fi Sensing is emerging as a transformative paradigm in the realm of smart environments, enabling the ubiquitous detection of human presence and the identification of activities within indoor spaces. This paper presents WiFiAct, which leverages a 20 MHz 1 transmit 1 receive (1T1R) Wi-Fi monitor to achieve state-of-the-art generalization results. Our methodology capitalizes on a custom preprocessing pipeline and harnesses the power of self-supervised learning frame-work utilizing a Bayesian Convolutional Neural network (BCNN) and novel contrastive augmentation techniques. Our custom pre-processing pipeline is capable of extracting environment invariant features from Wi-Fi signals, enhancing the expressive power of the subsequent classifier. The proposed self-supervised methodology utilizes a combination of unlabeled and labeled data to effectively learn representations that enable accurate geofenced activity recognition amid uncertainties. Through extensive experimentation, we showcase the proposed solution’s generalization capabilities, paving the way for innovative applications in presence detection and activity identification within smart environments.

15. Chen, C., Zhou, G., & Lin, Y. (2022). Cross-domain WiFi sensing with channel state information: A survey. *ACM Computing Surveys*. https://doi.org/10.1145/3570325
Abstract. The past years have witnessed the rapid conceptualization and development of wireless sensing based on Channel State Information (CSI) with commodity WiFi devices. Recent studies have demonstrated the vast potential of WiFi sensing in detection, recognition, and estimation applications. However, the widespread deployment of WiFi sensing systems still faces a significant challenge: how to ensure the sensing performance when exposing a pre-trained sensing system to new domains, such as new environments, different configurations, and unseen users, without data collection and system retraining. This survey provides a comprehensive review of recent research efforts on cross-domain WiFi Sensing. We first introduce the mathematical model of CSI and explore the impact of different domains on CSI. Then we present a general workflow of cross-domain WiFi sensing systems, which consists of signal processing and cross-domain sensing. Five cross-domain sensing algorithms, including domain-invariant feature extraction, virtual sample generation, transfer learning, few-shot learning and big data solution, are summarized to show how they achieve high sensing accuracy when encountering new domains. The advantages and limitations of each algorithm are also summarized and the performance comparison is made based on different applications. Finally, we discuss the remaining challenges to further promote the practical usability of cross-domain WiFi sensing systems.

16. Mao, Y., Guo, Z., Sheng, B., Gui, L., & Xiao, F. (2024). Wi-Cro: WiFi-based cross domain activity recognition via modified GAN. *IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology*. https://doi.org/10.1109/TVT.2024.3404452
Abstract. WiFi-based Human Activity Recognition (HAR) plays a crucial role in achieving device-free Human-Machine Interaction (HMI). Due to the strong dependence of WiFi Channel State Information (CSI) on the target environment, current WiFi-based activity recognition methods often require extensive training data and struggle to adapt to new environments. To enhance the generalization ability of wireless sensing, we propose a cross-domain activity recognition system based on WiFi, Wi-Cro. Wi-Cro utilizes Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) to transform source domain data into target domain data, supplemented by a small number of target domain samples to achieve cross-domain human activity recognition. We design a Subcarrier Dimension Reduction Algorithm (SDRA) to mitigate computational complexity of the system. This algorithm calculates the correlation between different CSI subcarriers and extracts principal components to reduce sample dimensions. Furthermore, we develop a data augmentation method based on GAN to transform source domain data into the target domain, addressing issues related to overfitting and domain adaptation due to insufficient samples. Finally, a metric learning approach is designed to further enhance the cross-domain sensing capability of the Wi-Cro system. Extensive experiments are performed using data collected in real-world environments and two public datasets. The results demonstrate that the Wi-Cro system consistently achieves high accuracy in human activity recognition across different datasets, proving its generalization abilities of cross-domain sensing.

17. Zheng, Y., Zhang, Y., Qian, K., Zhang, G., Liu, Y., Wu, C., & Yang, Z. (2019). Zero-effort cross-domain gesture recognition with Wi-Fi. *ACM SIGMOBILE International Conference on Mobile Systems, Applications, and Services*. https://doi.org/10.1145/3307334.3326081
Abstract. Wi-Fi based sensing systems, although sound as being deployed almost everywhere there is Wi-Fi, are still practically difficult to be used without explicit adaptation efforts to new data domains. Various pioneering approaches have been proposed to resolve this contradiction by either translating features between domains or generating domain-independent features at a higher learning level. Still, extra training efforts are necessary in either data collection or model re-training when new data domains appear, limiting their practical usability. To advance cross-domain sensing and achieve fully zero-effort sensing, a domain-independent feature at the lower signal level acts as a key enabler. In this paper, we propose Widar3.0, a Wi-Fi based zero-effort cross-domain gesture recognition system. The key insight of Widar3.0 is to derive and estimate velocity profiles of gestures at the lower signal level, which represent unique kinetic characteristics of gestures and are irrespective of domains. On this basis, we develop a one-fits-all model that requires only one-time training but can adapt to different data domains. We implement this design and conduct comprehensive experiments. The evaluation results show that without re-training and across various domain factors (i.e. environments, locations and orientations of persons), Widar3.0 achieves 92.7% in-domain recognition accuracy and 82.6%-92.4% cross-domain recognition accuracy, outperforming the state-of-the-art solutions. To the best of our knowledge, Widar3.0 is the first zero-effort cross-domain gesture recognition work via Wi-Fi, a fundamental step towards ubiquitous sensing.

18. Yang, J., Zou, H., Xie, L., & Spanos, C. (2021). Deep learning and unsupervised domain adaptation for WiFi-based sensing. *Generalization with Deep Learning*. https://doi.org/10.1142/9789811218842_0004
Abstract. Generalization with Deep Learning, pp. 79-100 (2021) No AccessChapter 4: Deep Learning and Unsupervised Domain Adaptation for WiFi-based SensingJianfei Yang, Han Zou, Lihua Xie, and Costas J. SpanosJianfei YangSchool of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Han ZouDepartment of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, University of California, Berkeley, USA, Lihua XieSchool of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, and Costas J. SpanosDepartment of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, University of California, Berkeley, USAhttps://doi.org/10.1142/9789811218842_0004Cited by:0 PreviousNext AboutSectionsPDF/EPUB ToolsAdd to favoritesDownload CitationsTrack CitationsRecommend to Library ShareShare onFacebookTwitterLinked InRedditEmail Abstract: With the wide deployment of WiFi infrastructures, wireless signals fill the air in most commercial regions and homes. Human activities usually affect the propagation of WiFi signals, which can be recorded by channel state information (CSI) data. A CSI sample is a 2D matrix that records the temporal and spatial dynamics in the current environment. Recent works exploit how to leverage machine learning and pattern recognition for WiFi-based sensing technology. In this chapter, we introduce how deep learning and unsupervised domain adaptation method further empower WiFi-based sensing. Specifically, convolutional neural network (CNN) extracts discriminative features automatically via supervised learning. Unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) transfers knowledge from a label-rich source domain to an unlabeled target domain. For example, we investigate how to leverage CNN and UDA for adaptive WiFi-based gesture recognition. As CSI data is sensitive to temporal and spatial dynamics, the deep model trained in the original environment (source domain) cannot achieve accurate recognition in a new environment (target domain), which is referred to as distribution shift or domain shift. An adversarial domain adaptation approach is introduced to tackle this problem. Apart from classic CNN architecture and adversarial domain adaptation, much recent deep learning progress can be connected with WiFi-based sensing. We introduce these potential directions including transfer learning, few-shot learning, cross-modality supervision, multimodal learning and model compression, which will lead to more robust and comprehensive smart sensing technology. Keywords: channel state informationdomain adaptationdeep learninggesture recognition FiguresReferencesRelatedDetails Generalization with Deep LearningMetrics History Keywordschannel state informationdomain adaptationdeep learninggesture recognitionPDF download

19. Zheng, N., Li, Y., Jiang, S., Li, Y., Yao, R., Dong, C., Chen, T., Yang, Y., Yin, Z., & Liu, Y. (2025). AdaWiFi, collaborative WiFi sensing for cross-environment adaptation. *IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing*. https://doi.org/10.1109/TMC.2024.3474853
Abstract. Deep learning (DL) based Wi-Fi sensing has witnessed great development in recent years. Although decent results have been achieved in certain scenarios, Wi-Fi based activity recognition is still difficult to deploy in real smart homes due to the limited cross-environment adaptability, i.e. a well-trained Wi-Fi sensing neural network in one environment is hard to adapt to other environments. To address this challenge, we propose AdaWiFi, a DL-based Wi-Fi sensing framework that allows multiple Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices to collaborate and adapt to various environments effectively. The key innovation of AdaWiFi includes a collective sensing model architecture that utilizes complementary information between distinct devices and avoids the biased perception of individual sensors and an accompanying model adaptation technique that can transfer the sensing model to new environments with limited data. We evaluate our system on a public dataset and a custom dataset collected from three complex sensing environments. The results demonstrate that AdaWiFi is able to achieve significantly better sensing adaptation effectiveness (e.g. 30% higher accuracy with one-shot adaptation) as compared with state-of-the-art baselines.

20. Radwan, A. Y., Yildirim, M., Hasanzadeh, N., Tabassum, H., & Valaee, S. (2025). A tutorial-cum-survey on self-supervised learning for Wi-Fi sensing: Trends, challenges, and outlook. *IEEE Communications Surveys and Tutorials*. https://doi.org/10.1109/COMST.2025.3586212
Abstract. Wi-Fi technology has evolved from simple communication routers to sensing devices. Wi-Fi sensing leverages conventional Wi-Fi transmissions to extract and analyze channel state information (CSI) for applications like proximity detection, occupancy detection, activity recognition, and health monitoring. By leveraging existing infrastructure, Wi-Fi sensing offers a privacy-preserving, non-intrusive, and cost-effective solution which, unlike cameras, is not sensitive to lighting conditions. Beginning with a comprehensive review of the Wi-Fi standardization activities, this tutorial-cum-survey first introduces fundamental concepts related to Wi-Fi CSI, outlines the CSI measurement methods, and examines the impact of mobile objects on CSI. The mechanics of a simplified testbed for CSI extraction are also described. Then, we present a qualitative comparison of the existing Wi-Fi sensing datasets, their specifications, and pin-point their shortcomings. Next, a variety of preprocessing techniques are discussed that are beneficial for feature extraction and explainability of machine learning (ML) algorithms. We then provide a qualitative review of recent ML approaches in the domain of Wi-Fi sensing and present the significance of self-supervised learning (SSL) in that context. Specifically, the mechanics of contrastive and non-contrastive learning solutions is elaborated in detail and a quantitative comparative analysis is presented in terms of classification accuracy. Finally, the article concludes by highlighting emerging technologies that can be leveraged to enhance the performance of Wi-Fi sensing and opportunities for further research in this domain.

21. Yin, G., Zhang, J., Shen, G., & Chen, Y. (2022). FewSense, towards a scalable and cross-domain Wi-Fi sensing system using few-shot learning. *IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing*. https://doi.org/10.1109/TMC.2022.3221902
Abstract. Wi-Fi sensing can classify human activities because each activity causes unique changes to the channel state information (CSI). Existing WiFi sensing suffers from limited scalability as the system needs to be retrained whenever new classes are added, which causes overheads of data collection and retraining. Cross-domain sensing may fail because the mapping between activities and CSI variations is destroyed when a different environment or user (domain) is involved. This paper proposed a few-shot learning-based WiFi sensing system, named FewSense, which can recognise novel classes in unseen domains with only a few samples. Specifically, a feature extractor was pre-trained offline using the source domain data. When the system was applied in the target domain, a few samples were used to fine-tune the feature extractor for domain adaptation. Inference was made by computing the cosine similarity. FewSense can further boost the classification accuracy by collaboratively fusing inference from multiple receivers. We evaluated the performance of FewSense using three public datasets, i.e., SignFi, Widar, and Wiar. The results show that FewSense with five-shot learning recognised novel classes in unseen domains with an accuracy of 93.9%, 96.5%, and 82.7% on the SignFi, Widar, and Wiar datasets, respectively. Our collaborative sensing model improved system performance by an average of 29.2%.

22. Wang, F., Zhang, T., Xi, W., Ding, H., Wang, G., Zhang, D., Cui, Y., Liu, F., Han, J., Xu, J., & Han, T. X. (2025). A survey on Wi-Fi sensing generalizability: Taxonomy, techniques, datasets, and future research prospects. *IEEE Communications Surveys and Tutorials*. https://doi.org/10.1109/COMST.2026.3670854
Abstract. Wi-Fi sensing has emerged as a powerful non-intrusive technology for recognizing human activities, monitoring vital signs, and enabling context-aware applications using commercial wireless devices. However, the performance of Wi-Fi sensing often degrades when applied to new users, devices, or environments due to significant domain shifts. To address this challenge, researchers have proposed a wide range of generalization techniques aimed at enhancing the robustness and adaptability of Wi-Fi sensing systems. In this survey, we provide a comprehensive and structured review of over 200 papers published since 2015, categorizing them according to the Wi-Fi sensing pipeline: experimental setup, signal preprocessing, feature learning, and model deployment. We analyze key techniques, including signal preprocessing, domain adaptation, meta-learning, metric learning, data augmentation, cross-modal alignment, federated learning, and continual learning. Furthermore, we summarize publicly available datasets across various tasks, such as activity recognition, user identification, indoor localization, and pose estimation, and provide insights into their domain diversity. We also discuss emerging trends and future directions, including large-scale pretraining, integration with multimodal foundation models, and continual deployment. To foster community collaboration, we introduce the Sensing Dataset Platform (SDP) (http://www.sdp8.org/) for sharing datasets and models. This survey aims to serve as a valuable reference and practical guide for researchers and practitioners dedicated to improving the generalizability of Wi-Fi sensing systems. Notably, while this paper focuses on Wi-Fi sensing, it is important to emphasize that the methodologies discussed in the feature learning and model deployment stages, e.g., domain alignment, metric learning, meta-learning, federated learning, and continual learning, are equally applicable to a broader range of wireless sensing generalization challenges, such as those encountered in millimeter radar-based human sensing. Given the rapid evolution of this field, we will continuously maintain and update relevant resources at https://github.com/aiotgroup/awesome-wireless-sensing-generalization

23. Chen, Y., & Huang, X. (2024). WiGNN: WiFi-based cross-domain gesture recognition inspired by dynamic topology structure. *IEEE wireless communications*. https://doi.org/10.1109/MWC.023.2200610
Abstract. Gesture recognition based on WiFi signals has achieved significant progress with the advent of deep learning. The channel state information (CSI) carried by the WiFi signal, is commonly used in deep learning-based models to extract features of human activities. However, when a user's location, orientation, or other gesture-independent information changes, the recognition accuracy of the model generally degrades significantly, introducing the challenge in cross-domain gesture recognition. This article reviews recent efforts in WiFi-based cross domain gesture recognition, which are faced with the challenge of accuracy and generalization. Observing that the movement of a user introduces variations in CSI simultaneously at multiple WiFi receivers, we capture the spatio-temporal relationship of the signals received at different spots with the graph model. We propose the causal multi-scale temporal-frequency feature fusion layer, which realizes extraction of temporal features with a casual convolution, followed by a multi-scale frequency extractor dealing with the rich frequency components in the CSI data. Embedding the temporal-frequency feature in the graph node, a graph neural network adaptively aggregates features with respect to different gestures. Moreover, to improve the robustness of possible signal obstructions caused by human orientations, a data augmentation scheme is proposed based on the spatial relationship between the receivers and the user. Our model achieves the average accuracy of 94.0 percent in cross-domain tasks on the Widar3.0 dataset, demonstrating the superiority of WiGNN.

24. Avola, D., Bruni, F., Foresti, G., Pannone, D., & Ranaldi, A. (2025). Digital shielding for cross-domain Wi-Fi signal adaptation using relativistic average generative adversarial network. *Integr. Comput. Aided Eng.*. https://doi.org/10.1177/10692509251339913
Abstract. Wi-Fi sensing exploits radio-frequency signals emitted by Wi-Fi devices to analyze environments, enabling tasks such as people tracking, intruder detection, and gesture recognition. Its growing diffusion is driven by the IEEE 802.11bf standard, which facilitates environmental monitoring, and the increasing demand for tools capable of penetrating obstacles while preserving privacy. However, the performance of Wi-Fi-based sensing solutions is influenced by the environment in which signals are acquired. This is critical when extracting spatial and temporal information from the surrounding scene, as such data reflect both environmental structure and interference sources. A main challenge is achieving generalization across domains, that is, ensuring consistent performance under varying conditions, such as different rooms or buildings, without significant accuracy loss. This paper presents a deep model for domain adaptation of Wi-Fi signals by simulating a digital shielding mechanism. The model is based on a Relativistic average Generative Adversarial Network (RaGAN), which mimics physical shielding to suppress domain-specific features while preserving signal integrity. Both the generator and discriminator use Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory (Bi-LSTM) architectures, enabling modeling of waveform and time-dimension signal characteristics. To support training, an acrylic box lined with electromagnetic shielding fabric, replicating a Faraday cage, was constructed. Spectra from same-sized objects made of different materials were acquired both inside (domain-free) and outside (domain-dependent) the box. A multi-class Support Vector Machine (SVM), trained on shielded spectra and tested on RaGAN-denoised data, achieved 96 percent accuracy. The SVM also distinguished materials, suggesting a promising approach for security systems aimed at identifying the nature and composition of potentially dangerous objects.

25. Mehryar, S. (2023). A domain adaptation framework for human activity monitoring using passive Wi-Fi sensing. *2023 IEEE 5th International Conference on Cybernetics, Cognition and Machine Learning Applications (ICCCMLA)*. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCCMLA58983.2023.10346849
Abstract. Due to the omnipresence of radio frequency signals, the Channel State Information (CSI) can offer an alternate source to image, video, and other high-dimensional streams in a great many Internet-of-Things (IoT) applications. As a result, an ever increasing number of researchers are advocating for the use of passive CSI data for ranging, tracking, perception and automation across many domains such as robotics, healthcare, and surveillance. Specifically, in indoor applications where movements cause classifiable effects on the CSI, this resource from the existing infrastructure can be leveraged in order to provide a high-dimensional signal source for activity recognition. However, the task remains a challenge on two accounts. On the one hand, the radio frequency channel is highly susceptible to environment changes and artifacts. On the other hand, there is a lack of robust models that allow for practical deployment. In this work, we focus on tackling these issues for practical IoT applications through a layered architecture proposal. In the first layer, the task of inference for activity recognition is performed by a robust cross-modal deep learning network. In the next layer, a domain adaptation framework is proposed in order to achieve high deployment-time performance in target indoor environments. Our experiments verify that through few-shot training, using the proposed framework the activity classification performance increases substantially in practical settings over the state-of-the-art approaches.

26. Li, H., Ji, Q., Shi, C., Wang, Y., Cheng, J. Q., Wang, K., Xie, M., & Chen, Y. (2022). Solving the WiFi sensing dilemma in reality leveraging conformal prediction. *IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing*. https://doi.org/10.1109/TMC.2026.3676932
Abstract. With the wide deployment of smart environments and IoT devices, WiFi sensing has demonstrated its great convenience and contactless sensing capabilities in supporting a broad array of applications. However, designing a ubiquitous WiFi sensing system for heterogeneous scenarios in practice is still a big dilemma as the system performs poorly when the testing data is significantly different from the training data caused by domain variations. To address this dilemma, existing studies involve extra efforts to develop new features or even to retrain the original model under environmental variations. However, none of them can resolve the dilemma completely. In this work, we conduct a comprehensive study on the domain variation problem to make WiFi sensing robust and accurate in reality. Our definition of domains is comprehensive and includes environments, surrounding settings, user differences, user's facing directions, user's positions relative to WiFi sensors, and user participating time frames. Our innovation is to achieve reliable WiFi sensing across all the domains based on the conformal prediction framework. Our approach quantifies the conformity (i.e., similarity) between the testing WiFi samples and the training samples, then labels the testing samples with the most probable class(es). We develop a novel cross-domain transformal prediction scheme based on the multivariate kernel density estimation to effectively assess and learn the conformity of each domain in the training data. To meet various application-specific requirements, we further develop two approaches to fuse the knowledge of conformity derived from the training domains to perform predictions. Extensive experiments with both self-collected and public datasets show that our framework can improve prediction accuracies from 30% to 74% improvements in three most representative WiFi-based applications across six types of domain variations.

27. Zhao, Z., Chen, T., Cai, Z., Li, H., Li, X., Chen, Q., & Zhu, G. (2024). CrossFi: A cross domain Wi-Fi sensing framework based on siamese network. *IEEE Internet of Things Journal*. https://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2025.3542850
Abstract. In recent years, Wi-Fi sensing has garnered significant attention due to its numerous benefits, such as privacy protection, low cost, and penetration ability. Extensive research has been conducted in this field, focusing on areas, such as gesture recognition, people identification, and fall detection. However, many data-driven methods encounter challenges related to domain shift, where the model fails to perform well in environments different from the training data. One major factor contributing to this issue is the limited availability of Wi-Fi sensing datasets, which makes models learn excessive irrelevant information and over-fit to the training set. Unfortunately, collecting large-scale Wi-Fi sensing datasets across diverse scenarios is a challenging task. To address this problem, we propose CrossFi, a siamese network-based approach that excels in both in-domain scenario and cross-domain scenario, including few-shot, zero-shot scenarios, and even works in few-shot new-class scenario where testing set contains new categories. The core component of CrossFi is a sample-similarity calculation network called CSi-Net, which improves the structure of the siamese network by using an attention mechanism to capture similarity information, instead of simply calculating the distance or cosine similarity. Based on it, we develop an extra Weight-Net that can generate a template for each class, so that our CrossFi can work in different scenarios. Experimental results demonstrate that our CrossFi achieves state-of-the-art performance across various scenarios. In gesture recognition task, our CrossFi achieves an accuracy of 98.17% in in-domain scenario, 91.72% in one-shot cross-domain scenario, 64.81% in zero-shot cross-domain scenario, and 84.75% in one-shot new-class scenario. The code for our model is publicly available at https://github.com/RS2002/CrossFi.

28. Yang, B., Wang, H., Hu, L., Zhu, H., Lam, C., & Fang, K. (2023). Few-shot cross-domain-based WiFi sensing system for online learning in IoT. *IEEE Sensors Journal*. https://doi.org/10.1109/JSEN.2023.3326490
Abstract. WiFi-based sensing technology has become a popular research direction in the Internet of Things (IoT) field. However, the accuracy of action sensing across different environmental domains is severely degraded when the model is deployed at the real IoT edge. Existing cross-domain sensing methods are unsuitable for real-life applications due to the large amount of expensive channel state information (CSI) data required for training. Meanwhile, pretrained predictive models in the cloud may not perform well in edge-side deployment environments. To address these issues, we propose a few-shot cross-domain WiFi sensing (FewCS) system with online learning. The model aggregates unlabeled samples from the same target domain and separates samples from different domains while minimizing sample cost and training an accurate WiFi-sensing system. The core idea of FewCS is to capture the sensing features of data through intradomain prototype clustering and perform cross-domain prototype extraction in a shared embedding space of multiple data. Moreover, we extend the model to the IoT edge segment for online learning and fine-tune the model parameters to fit the new domain on the cloud by using data collected in the field. Extensive experimental results on real datasets show that the proposed scheme significantly outperforms the current state-of-the-art WiFi sensing methods in terms of sensing accuracy and achieves satisfactory online learning performance with fewer training samples and times.

29. Kang, H., Zhang, Q., & Huang, Q. (2021). Context-aware wireless-based cross-domain gesture recognition. *IEEE Internet of Things Journal*. https://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2021.3064890
Abstract. Recently, significant efforts have been made to enable WiFi-based gesture recognition. However, models trained with data collected from specific domain suffer from significant performance degradation when applied in a new domain. In practice, various WiFi sensing techniques have provided us with a full knowledge of domain information including discrete variables, i.e., environment and subject, as well as continuous variables, i.e., location and orientation. Previous works haven’t fully explored these domain information or need to integrate substantial links’ information to use them. Intuitively, we can boost gesture recognition accuracy by accounting for all these domain information with different properties. We propose a new framework not being restricted to link number which combines an adversarial learning scheme with feature disentanglement modules. They together conduct two-stage alignment between each of the source domains and the target domain to eliminate all gesture irrespective information. We also present an attention scheme based on discriminative information of each source and target domain to promote positive transfer from source to target domain. Our model is evaluated on the Widar 3.0 data set and achieves an improvement of 3%–12.7% in cross-domain average accuracy, demonstrating the superiority.

30. Jiang, C., Yan, Y., Wang, Y., Chou, C. T., & Hu, W. (2025). Scale what counts, mask what matters: Evaluating foundation models for zero-shot cross-domain Wi-Fi sensing. *arXiv.org*. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2511.18792
Abstract. While Wi-Fi sensing offers a compelling, privacy-preserving alternative to cameras, its practical utility has been fundamentally undermined by a lack of robustness across domains. Models trained in one setup fail to generalize to new environments, hardware, or users, a critical"domain shift"problem exacerbated by modest, fragmented public datasets. We shift from this limited paradigm and apply a foundation model approach, leveraging Masked Autoencoding (MAE) style pretraining on the largest and most heterogeneous Wi-Fi CSI datasets collection assembled to date. Our study pretrains and evaluates models on over 1.3 million samples extracted from 14 datasets, collected using 4 distinct devices across the 2.4/5/6 GHz bands and bandwidths from 20 to 160 MHz. Our large-scale evaluation is the first to systematically disentangle the impacts of data diversity versus model capacity on cross-domain performance. The results establish scaling trends on Wi-Fi CSI sensing. First, our experiments show log-linear improvements in unseen domain performance as the amount of pretraining data increases, suggesting that data scale and diversity are key to domain generalization. Second, based on the current data volume, larger model can only provide marginal gains for cross-domain performance, indicating that data, rather than model capacity, is the current bottleneck for Wi-Fi sensing generalization. Finally, we conduct a series of cross-domain evaluations on human activity recognition, human gesture recognition and user identification tasks. The results show that the large-scale pretraining improves cross-domain accuracy ranging from 2.2% to 15.7%, compared to the supervised learning baseline. Overall, our findings provide insightful direction for designing future Wi-Fi sensing systems that can eventually be robust enough for real-world deployment.

Barahimi, B., Tabassum, H., Omer, M., & Waqar, O. (2024). Context-Aware Predictive Coding: A Representation Learning Framework for WiFi Sensing. *IEEE Open Journal of the Communications Society, 5*, 6119-6134. https://doi.org/10.1109/ojcoms.2024.3465216

Chen, C., Zhou, G., & Lin, Y. (2022). Cross-Domain WiFi Sensing with Channel State Information: A Survey. *ACM Computing Surveys, 55*, 1 - 37. https://doi.org/10.1145/3570325

Custance, O., Khan, S., Parkinson, S., & Sheng, Q. Z. (2026). Parameter-Efficient Domain Adaption for CSI Crowd-Counting via Self-Supervised Learning with Adapter Modules. *ArXiv, abs/2601.02203*. https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2601.02203

He, Z., Bouazizi, M., Gui, G., & Ohtsuki, T. (2025). A Cross-Subject Transfer Learning Method for CSI-Based Wireless Sensing. *IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 12*, 23946-23960. https://doi.org/10.1109/jiot.2025.3554203

Jiang, C., Yan, Y.-H., Wang, Y., Chou, C., & Hu, W. (2025). Scale What Counts, Mask What Matters: Evaluating Foundation Models for Zero-Shot Cross-Domain Wi-Fi Sensing. *ArXiv, abs/2511.18792*. https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2511.18792

Jiang, J., Ruan, X., & Xu, S. (2026). CSI-MAE: A Masked Autoencoder-based Channel Foundation Model. https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2601.03789

Jiang, J., Yu, W., Li, Y., Gao, Y., & Xu, S. (2025). A MIMO Wireless Channel Foundation Model via CIR-CSI Consistency. *2025 IEEE International Conference on Machine Learning for Communication and Networking (ICMLCN)*, 1-6. https://doi.org/10.1109/icmlcn64995.2025.11140262

Kim, D., Lee, J., Kim, S., & Kim, S.-H. (2026). WiFi-JEPA: Self-supervised Learning for WiFi-CSI 3D Human Pose Estimation. *ArXiv, abs/2607.11064*. https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2607.11064

Liu, G., Hao, Y., & Zou, Y. (2025). CIG-MAE: Cross-Modal Information-Guided Masked Autoencoder for Self-Supervised Wi-Fi Sensing. *IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 13*, 35614-35624. https://doi.org/10.1109/jiot.2026.3696504

Liu, Y., Si, H., Boateng, G. O., Guo, X., Qian, B., & Ansari, N. (2026). A Self-Supervised Masked Autoencoder Leveraging Temporal-Frequency Representation for CSI Localization. *IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering, 13*, 7265-7282. https://doi.org/10.1109/tnse.2026.3667788

Luo, X., Li, Z., & Liu, Y. (2026). CSI-JEPA: Towards Foundation Representations for Ubiquitous Sensing with Minimal Supervision. *ArXiv, abs/2605.14171*. https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2605.14171

Radwan, A. Y., & Tabassum, H. (2026). MU-SHOT-Fi: Self-Supervised Multiuser Wi-Fi Sensing With Source-Free Unsupervised Domain Adaptation. *IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 13*, 31361-31376. https://doi.org/10.1109/jiot.2026.3686090

Radwan, A. Y., Yildirim, M., Hasanzadeh, N., Tabassum, H., & Valaee, S. (2025). A Tutorial-Cum-Survey on Self-Supervised Learning for Wi-Fi Sensing: Trends, Challenges, and Outlook. *IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, 28*, 2345-2376. https://doi.org/10.1109/comst.2025.3586212

Sai, S., Sharma, D., Chamola, V., Guizani, M., & Niyato, D. (2026). Machine Learning Techniques for Wi-Fi CSI-Based Recognition and Sensing: A Comprehensive Review. *IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 13*, 20190-20214. https://doi.org/10.1109/jiot.2026.3657341

Xu, K., Wang, J., Zhu, H., & Zheng, D. (2025). Evaluating Self-Supervised Learning for WiFi CSI-Based Human Activity Recognition. *ACM Transactions on Sensor Networks, 21*, 1 - 38. https://doi.org/10.1145/3715130

Xu, K., Zheng, Z., Zhu, H., Wang, L., & Wang, J. (2023). ARC-Fi: Exploiting Antenna Spatial Diversity for Label-Efficient Domain Generalization in Wi-Fi Sensing. https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2310.06328

Yang, J., Chen, X., Zou, H., Wang, D., & Xie, L. (2022). AutoFi: Toward Automatic Wi-Fi Human Sensing via Geometric Self-Supervised Learning. *IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 10*, 7416-7425. https://doi.org/10.1109/jiot.2022.3228820

Yang, B., Wang, H., Hu, L., Zhu, H., Lam, C., & Fang, K. (2023). Few-Shot Cross-Domain-Based WiFi Sensing System for Online Learning in IoT. *IEEE Sensors Journal, 23*, 29892-29905. https://doi.org/10.1109/jsen.2023.3326490

Yin, G.-L., Zhang, J., Shen, G., & Chen, Y. (2022). FewSense, Towards a Scalable and Cross-Domain Wi-Fi Sensing System Using Few-Shot Learning. *IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, 23*, 453-468. https://doi.org/10.1109/tmc.2022.3221902

Zhang, X., Yan, H., Huang, J., Liu, B., Feng, Y.-H., Liu, J., Li, M., Zhang, F., & Liu, Z. (2026). Beyond Physical Labels: Redefining Domains for Robust WiFi-based Gesture Recognition. *Proceedings of the ACM on Interactive, Mobile, Wearable and Ubiquitous Technologies, 10*, 1 - 27. https://doi.org/10.1145/3790114

AirFi: Empowering WiFi-based Passive Human Gesture Recognition to Unseen Environment via Domain Generalization. https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.10285